It took me 81 minutes to automate
$342,320
a month in LinkedIn ad spend. I know
because I timed it. And that was for a
complicated account advertising across
nine verticals. For most normal brands,
you can probably get this done in less
than 30 minutes. In this video, I'm
going to walk you through how I did this
and the exact workflows that I created
using a tool called Sammy. If you're new
to the channel, I'm Sylvia Perez. I'm
the founder of Ad Conversion. We teach
8,000 plus B2B marketers how to master
ads and manage $3 million a month in ad
spend for top B2B SAS brands. LinkedIn
is one of our most popular channels and
we actually created Sammy because we
were running a bunch of LinkedIn ad
campaigns in our agency and we needed a
more scalable solution. Let's first
start off by talking about what is Sammy
so that you can get familiar with the
platform and then I'll walk you through
some examples of how we actually created
these workflows so you can put this all
into practice. Let's kick off by talking
about what is Sammy in the first place.
So Sammy is an ad automation platform
that lets you optimize your ads 24/7
across LinkedIn, Google, Meta, and
YouTube. With Sammy, you can do things
like set up a workflow that will
automatically pause ads that have never
generated any conversions or sales and
send you an alert in Slack notifying you
once the ad has been paused. You can
also do things like set up a workflow to
notify you if ad fatigue has set in. You
can also set up a workflow to add
schedule and only serve your ads during
certain business days or times of the
day. Uh you can do anything around
optimizing performance, managing
budgets, and monitoring KPIs. It's a
really flexible tool and you can get
started with it for a 14-day free trial
if you want to put this into practice.
Now, before we actually jump into Sammy,
I think it's really important that you
have just a quick primer on ad
automation as a whole. Because if you're
new to this, it'll be really helpful for
you to conceptualize what does the ad
automation actually look like in
practice. Because if you have this
fundamental perspective when you go into
the actual platform, I think it'll make
putting things into play much easier for
you versus just kind of getting lost
with all of the shiny objects. So, this
here in front of you is what I call the
optimization life cycle. And if you've
been following along this channel, you
know we like to pull it out the
whiteboard. I came prepared this time
and I mapped everything out here for you
guys ahead of time. And I want to walk
you through the optimization life cycle.
And then I'm going to show you how this
actually manifests into workflows that
we have built in Sammy. So first things
first, let's just pretend that you
launch six new campaigns. Whenever you
launch a new campaign, it enters what I
call the launch phase. And let's pretend
that we launched six campaigns focusing
on driving conversions. And our goal is
we want to drive a conversion for less
than $500. So the way that we've set up
this workflow is if the cost is greater
than 500 and conversions are less than
one, we're going to go ahead and shut
off those ads. And in the launch phase,
our primary goal is to wait for enough
sample size. We need to make sure that
our ads spend enough so that we have the
opportunity to actually turn them off.
Now, I'm going to using a lead
generation and a conversion example
throughout this optimization life cycle,
but the same is true if you're focusing
on awareness. So, for example, if I was
creating an awareness workflow for
optimizing my awareness campaigns on
LinkedIn, it could be if my engagement
rate is less than my average engagement
rate and impressions are greater than
a,000. Greater than a,000 impressions is
the sample size that I need in order to
successfully get out of the launch
phase. So using this example, let's
pretend we launched those six campaigns
and of those six campaigns, three
survived and then three got paused due
to poor performance. So imagine that one
of the campaigns had a CPA of $370,
another one had a CPA of $400 and then
the last one had a CPA of $485.
So what happens is once we get out of
the launch phase, now we enter what I
call the maintenance phase. And in the
maintenance phase, what we're really
doing is we're trying to just assess
performance. We need our campaigns to
acrewue more data, get some more
learnings underneath them before we
enter the next phase, which is the scale
phase. And on the scale phase, this is
all about reallocation. So for example,
we can now make a decision. Are we going
to increase our budgets or bids for the
things that are performing well or are
we going to decrease our budget or bids
for the things that are performing
worse? So for instance, those three
campaigns, let's imagine the two
performed well. So, we're going to go
ahead and scale those because it has a
CPA of 370 and 400 while one really
struggled to, you know, hit the ground
running. So, we're going to just monitor
it and it had a CPA of $485. So, now we
enter yet again another maintenance
phase. And this evolution between scale
and maintenance, scale and maintenance,
it just kind of happens forever until
eventually all of your campaigns die. So
now when we enter this new maintenance
phase, we then yet enter another scale
phase. And from here, imagine these two
campaigns, one of them could not sustain
a CPA at a higher level of daily ad
spend. That's very common. If you've
ever scaled your campaigns, especially
if you're running ads on meta, you
notice that they just start to break
after a certain amount of ad spend. That
happens. Some ads are not good enough to
sustain that level of ad spend. So in
this case, that one campaign, the CPA
creeped up to $515. So, we're going to
go ahead and pause that. The other one
that's doing really well, we're going to
scale that further because it's still at
$400, which is less than 500, which is
acceptable for for me. So, basically
now, this $400 campaign would then enter
yet again another maintenance phase and
then another scale phase until
eventually, you know, all campaigns stop
performing because eventually all
campaigns do stop performing. And for
this one campaign over here, you know,
it just continued to underperform. So,
we just killed it. So from here it
really just happens again and again. And
the the craziest thing about this too is
like eventually you have to basically
decide am I going to launch new
campaigns and then push them through
this optimization life cycle. But but
here's where it gets really crazy is
this doesn't happen in isolation. So
meaning like we're not launching a
cohort of campaigns at a time running it
through this entire process being very
diligent about this the phases and the
types of scaling that it's going through
and then you know waiting for all the
campaigns to complete and then launching
new campaigns. What we're doing in
practice is we're launching campaigns
and then we're launching new campaigns
and then imagine in this hypothetical
example we're only talking about six
campaigns. Imagine you go from six
campaigns to 15 to 50 to 100. Imagine
now you're not just talking about
LinkedIn ads, you're also doing Google
ads, you're doing YouTube ads, you're
doing meta ads. Like, and the craziest
thing about all of this is you're doing
it manually, which is just insane. And
this is where ad automation can be
really powerful to just give you time
back, scale your personal capacity, your
team's capacity, and ultimately just
drive better results. Because what this
actually looks like in practice is
people launch campaigns, they leave
their campaigns in the launch phase for
way too long because they just don't
have the discipline around deciding,
hey, this is enough sample size. We're
going to move forward or not. Or they're
just too busy. Or vice versa, they stay
in the maintenance phase for way too
long because they don't have the amount
of ads that they need to refresh and and
replace the losers in terms of creative
refresh. or again they don't have the
time or the discipline or they get too
emotional about their decision-making
and they say you know what I really like
this ad I think it's a beautiful ad I'm
going to keep letting it run because I
believe in it because it it once
performed right and then you know fast
forward 6 months you lost 30 grand
happens all the time so this is why ad
automation is so important and in my
fundamental belief and why we've built
Sammy is because I truly believe the
future of advertising is going to be
similar to investors. Like if you think
of investors or you think about like
stock brokers, they don't buy shares
manually. They used to back in the day,
they would fill it out in an envelope
and send it off. Now what do they do?
They use technology. If the share price
is at a certain cost, they will buy the
share, right? If the share price is at a
certain cost, they'll sell the share.
They have logic and rules and they use
the technology to really streamline a
lot of the manual work. So then they can
focus more of their personal time and
capital on building client
relationships, studying the market,
analyzing trends, and I really think
advertising and performance marketing,
and that is going to be the future for
us as well. I just wanted to take a
quick second and say if you're loving
this video, you will absolutely love our
free courses at adconversion.com.
They are seriously free. You can sign up
and take them. We have courses on Google
Ads, Reddit ads, LinkedIn ads, and more.
They're all free. Seriously, our mission
and vision is really just to build like
the the one place you can go to master
B2B ads. And uh if you don't believe me,
you can check out our wall of love from
all of our students that have taken our
courses. People have landed jobs taking
our courses, started agencies. It's
really remarkable. So if you're loving
this video, definitely go check us out
at a conversion.com. Okay, lo and
behold, we are in Sammy. I'm going to
walk you now through the actual
mechanics of the workflows that I built.
So remember what I talked about the
launch, the maintenance, the scale
phases. So I have four SAMs created in
Sammy. A SAM in Sammy is a workflow of
of rules and it's basically an
automation of what are we trying to
accomplish. So one of the the SAMs that
I created is a launch SAM. So I have a
group of campaigns. They're called my
fix my ad campaigns. It's for a specific
offer that we are promoting in our
agency. And for the launch SAM, I'm
basically doing exactly the logic that
we discussed. So if my cost is greater
than 500 and conversions are less than
one, it's going to get shut off. Then I
have a maintenance SAM. And the
maintenance SAM is looking over my same
campaigns and it's looking if my ads
have a high cost per conversion greater
than 500, they're going to get killed.
And then I have a scale SAM. And in my
scale SAM, what I'm doing is I'm
increasing budgets for my best
performing campaigns that have a strong
daily pacing and the cost per conversion
is acceptable based on my targets. And
then lastly, I have a budget protection
sam. What this one is doing is it's
notifying me when 80% of my budget has
been spent and then it's going to pause
all my campaigns once I've reached my
target. So just between these four
workflows, I have automated pretty much
all of the work in terms of the
day-to-day optimizations for my LinkedIn
ad campaigns. From here, really what I
have left to do is reporting and looking
at like demographics data. In addition
to that, it's launching new campaigns,
but all of the ongoing optimizations are
automated here between my budget
protection, my scaling, my maintenance,
my launch sams. I've got it all worked
out here. So, I want to go and just show
you really quickly how you can build
your first SAM and Sammy if you want to
put this into practice. And just for
like some quick context here, this is
what it looks like in in action. So,
this is our budget protection SAM. I
actually recommend that you get started
with us this one. It's really helpful to
just make sure that you never overspend.
So, what we're doing here is we're going
to get notified on the first step once
80% of our monthly budget has been
spent. And then on the second step,
Sammy is going to pause all of our
campaigns once we reach our monthly
budget. And then next month, it'll loop
back again. And then we will be able to,
you know, basically update our budgets
for the next month. So, let's go ahead
and create a SAM together. So, to do
this as simply as possible, we have
created a bunch of what we call SAM
templates. These are basically templates
that are our best or most popular
automations that you can just plug and
play as quickly as possible. We've got
all kinds of things that you can
automate in Sammy. You can think of this
as like a library of inspiration. So for
instance, that budget protection SAM, we
have a template for that. The
maintenance phase and ongoing
maintenance, we have a template for
that. If you want to ad schedule your
ads on LinkedIn, you know, certain days
of the week, we've got a template for
that. bidding for LinkedIn, pausing ads
based on engagement rates, getting
notified of ad fatigue, and so much
more. So, to get started, what we're
going to do is we're going to build the
budget protection SAM. And I'm going to
go ahead and select LinkedIn because
that's what we're focusing on in this
video. And then I'm going to scroll down
here and I'm going to go ahead and click
modify. And I'm going to modify my rule
and I'm going to update the value based
on my details. So Sammy is going to walk
me through the process here. What I'm
going to do is I'm going to choose my
account and we're going to leave
everything here because we're using a
template. It makes it super easy where
all of this information is populated. So
I don't have to really worry about any
of this. So now I just got to come in
here and update what my cost target is.
So let's pretend I had a monthly budget
of $10,000. I'll just put that here. And
then it's going to notify me once 80% of
$10,000. So in this case, $8,000 has
been spent. And then this is where it
gets really cool is we have an
integration with Slack. So you can get
real-time alerts on these things that
are happening in your ad account, which
is pretty awesome. So for instance, like
once I've spent 80% of my budget, now
I'm going to get notified via Slack to
go ahead and update that. So now I can
just go ahead and choose my specific
Slack channel that I'm interested in.
And I can go ahead and save this. And
that's it. We're done. Now I'm going to
go and modify my second step. And I'm
going to update my value here. So I want
to make sure I do not exceed $10,000.
So, just to be safe that I don't
overspend, I'm going to just put like
9,9990
just to give me a little bit of wiggle
room. And that is it. We will enable
Slack notifications again. Choose our
channel. And we will go ahead and save
this. And then I would just go ahead and
publish this. And that is it. We've got
this first SAM created. And now for the
other SAMs that I talked about on the
launch, the maintenance, and the scale
phase. I want to just quickly show you
what that looks like here. So for the
launch one, what this is is we have a
one step that is looping once some of
the the ads have been triggered and it's
going to pause those ads with no
conversions. So just to show you what
that looks like here in practice, it
looks like this. So in this case, I've
got my four campaigns selected. I've got
the condition to pause the ads. If for
whatever reason you want the final say,
let's pretend like you for maybe you
don't have like the ability to refresh
creative fast enough and you want to be
very mindful of the ads that you you do
pause so that when you pause them,
you're ready to replace them. You can go
ahead and select manual approval and
then what this will do is when you get
your Slack notification, there will be
an approve button. So now you can
approve the final change, which is
really cool. So again, you're still
using automation so that you don't have
to live inside the ad manager, right?
like you can go about your business and
then you can set these workflows up and
then the information comes to you. So
then from there I'm just going to go
ahead and set my cost target. So you can
see here in the rule builder I have cost
greater than 500 and conversions less
than one. So that's all set. One last
thing I guess I'll just mention that's
super important is if in the case like
you don't care about conversions like if
you're listening to this and you're like
oh I care about MQLs. As long as you
have it as a conversion action in your
account Sammy can pull it and then you
can build your rule off that. So in this
case I have cost greater than 500 and
MQL is less than one. So you can fully
customize these rules based on your
campaigns and the KPIs that you care
about. So like another reallyam uh
common example that we use all the time
for LinkedIn is we use engagement rate
for our awareness campaigns. You could
also use dwell time. That's a newer
metric if you're interested in dwell
time. But one that we always use is like
if our engagement rate is less than our
average engagement rate and impressions
are greater than 1,000. So this is one
that we find ourselves using all the
time. And with this, it's pretty cool
cuz using the average metric, it'll
update based on the time frame. So in
this case, it'll look at my engagement
rate over the last 90 days and then pull
in that value once the rule runs. And I
can have the rule run as fast as every
hour or once a week or once a month. I
definitely recommend minimum starting at
once a week, especially if you're a
smaller account. Uh you could get away
with once a month if like you really
don't have a lot of ad spend, but once a
week is a really nice sweet spot just to
make sure for the maintenance rules that
you're acrewing enough data because
remember in that maintenance phase like
you do need to let more spend happen to
see how it continues to perform. So once
a week is a pretty nice sweet spot. You
could also do once a month, but for the
for the launch campaigns or the launch
SAMs, I would totally recommend that you
run it every single hour because in the
launch phase, remember, we're going to
pause the things that never perform. So,
we don't want to let that drag on. So,
for that one, I would leave it at every
hour on the frequency. That is pretty
much it. Happy to do more videos on
this. If you guys want to dive deeper in
ad automation, learn more about Sammy,
let me know. You can try Sammy free for
14 days. I'll have the link in the
description box down below. Hope this
video was valuable. Be sure to give this
video a thumbs up. It really helps grow
our reach as a small channel. And
subscribe so you can be notified of
future videos. When you're ready, check
out adconversion.com and join our
community of 8,000 plus B2B marketers
and master ads with our free courses.
See you in the next one.